>>Water-- the most common
substance on Earth.
It is with us every
moment of our lives.
Like the human body, the Earth
maintains a constant amount
of water.
If the quantity of water
is reduced, or at least one
of its amazing features is
changed, then life on Earth
will vanish.
Just like you, Earth is
a living, dynamic being.
It has veins and
arteries with water
flowing through it,
which are connected
to one large thriving
heart, the ocean.
It evaporates water
and returns it back
to the hydrologic cycle
as rain, falling down
on mountain tops, which again
form veins and arteries that
return to the ocean.
It is this constant
water circulation
that keeps the planet alive.
We are just like the surface of
the Earth-- at least 70% water.
We also have a heart and 60,000
miles of veins and arteries.
And like our planet,
it is water that
gives us life, replenishing
ourselves in a continuous water
cycle.
The system of the
universe exists
as a single, perfect organism.
All of its parts,
including us and our Earth,
are inseparably bound together
by huge streams of information.
And on our planet,
water plays the key role
in how the information
is exchanged.
In effect, it is the
medium through which
all nature is governed.
Our Earth is a giant
container of water in which
all forms of life arose.
And every living thing is,
itself, essentially a container
of water.
Depending on age, a human being
is made up of 70 to 90% water.
An adult drinks approximately
2.5 liters of water each day
in order to sustain his
normal life functions.
Another 1.5 liters is
absorbed through the skin
during bathing or showering.
Science has not yet been able
to answer the question of why
water is the only substance
on the planet that
can exist in three states--
liquid, solid, and gaseous.
Why does water have the highest
surface tension of all liquids?
Why is it the most
powerful solvent on Earth?
And how in defiance
of the Earth's gravity
is water able to rise through
the trunks of gigantic trees
against tens of
atmospheres of pressure?
In a seed, for example,
it reaches 400 atmospheres
at the moment of germination.
That's why a plant shoot
can break through asphalt
with ease.
The water, of course,
remains water.
But its structure,
like a nervous system,
reacts to any irritation.
The water molecule is a dipole.
One end is charged
more negatively
and the other more positively.
This is a well known phenomenon.
A molecule acting through
its negatively charged end
can attract another molecule
by its positively charged end.
And then another molecule.
This is how the structure
of water is formed.
It is fluid and short lived.
Somehow, among the
changing forms,
one can see stable formations.
These are called clusters.
It is within these
structures that water retains
information it has captured.
Any substance coming
into contact with water
leaves a trace in the water.
Had our ancestors
guessed this when
they used silver vessels to
turn ordinary water into healing
water?
In the 1960s in a closed
laboratory in Germany,
something inexplicable occurred.
A laboratory assistant
dropped a vacuum
sealed ampule containing
virulent poison into a vessel
with distilled water.
Trying to conceal her blunder,
she just left it in the water.
The ampule was discovered
only three days later.
Since it was sealed, it did
not pose any special hazard
and the matter was closed.
Later, the water was
given to laboratory mice--
--and they died.
Immediately the water
was thoroughly tested.
Chemically, it proved
to be impeccably clean.
It meant that the water without
direct contact with the poison
somehow adopted its properties.
In other words, it received
negative information
from the poison.
A fantastic hypotheses
was put forward,
a hypotheses that could explain
water's unpredictable behavior.
Water has memory.
Experiments done in many
countries around the world
have shown that water
receives and makes
an imprint of any outside
influence, remembering
everything that occurs in
the space that surrounds it.
It makes no difference
where the water is located.
If you transport
water to outer space,
it remains sensitive
to what it encounters.
NASA scientists discovered
this when they released water
in a low gravity environment.
>>Pure water is hard to
make, it's hard to get,
and it's kind of reactive.
It's very polar liquid.
And so it tends to dissolve
things and grab things,
and they become what
we call surface active.
If you take a drop of oil
or something like that,
it won't do that.
Ethanol or alcohol
won't do that.
But water is a highly
contaminable surface.
If you fill up a
water balloon, there
was some junk on the
mandril that they
used to make the balloon
in the first place that's
on the inside of the balloon
that's instantly in the liquid.
Now, when you deploy that, that
junk that's in the liquid then
goes to the surface.
And so it changes the
surface properties somewhat.
>>Water drops
oscillate in reaction
to the burst balloon membrane.
It takes 45 minutes for
it to stabilize and form
a perfect sphere.
Further experiments
at low gravity
allowed astronauts to study a
sphere of water 75 millimeters
in diameter with an
air bubble inside.
When water droplets were
injected into the bubble,
they created collision
dynamics in action.
Most of the collisions
were created
in a rebound or elastic
fashion, bouncing off
each other and the wall.
But on occasion, an internal
bubble would oscillate
and the momentum would carry
it across the interface
in a mass transfer.
The structure of water means
how its molecules are organized.
We can see how water molecules
join together into groups.
Scientists came up with the
idea that these clusters
work as memory cells of a
certain sort in which water
records the whole history of
its relationship with the world
as if on magnetic tape.
>>If you consider a cluster as
a group of specific molecules,
then it can survive only
a short amount of time.
But if you consider it as a
structure whereby molecules can
leave and other
molecules come in,
the cluster can last effectively
for a very long time.
>>The stability of
the cluster structures
confirm the
hypothesis that water
is capable of recording
and storing information.
>>It may be the single most
malleable computer, which can--
it's like a computer memory.
It's a memory of information.
You must know how
it is arranged.
It is like the alphabet.
If I give you the alphabet,
you don't know a word,
you don't a letter, you
don't know a sentence.
So the molecular structure
is the alphabet of water.
And you must make a
sentence out of water.
And you can change the sentence.
>>This leads us to the idea that
information is either made up
of water or exists in it.
Like sculptures
that have not yet
been created are present
in a piece of clay,
so the images of all
future living organisms
were present in the water.
Water merely brought to life
a preexisting conception.
But for any process to
begin requires an impulse.
Wise men of ancient times
believed that for life to arise
was a primordial divine spark.
This spark imprinted
in the water
the sequence of
future development.
The entire course of evolution
provides evidence of this.
>>There are such animals,
for example, jellyfish.
Jellyfishes are 99.9% water.
And we as biologists
study the left 0.1%
of these jellyfish in order to
understand how this bulk water,
why it is a life.
Probably this water is
alive, and this 0.1%
simply allows it to be a life.
We ourselves when we're newborns
or when we were fetuses,
we were 95 or even
more percent of water.
We're already alive.
>>I think that scientists should
look more closely at how water
interacts with their molecules.
At a molecular level, it
creates the structure of DNA.
We wouldn't have the
DNA helix without water.
It creates the
structure of proteins.
So our bodies wouldn't
work without the water.
>>Water is a universal
computer that
reveals any biological
program, and thus water
is the only thing
that can change it.
Water has a life
cycle of its own,
flowing from melting glaciers
down steep mountain slopes.
During the journey down,
the crystal streams
are filled with the
energy of the sun.
They absorb information about
the properties of the soil,
about the composition
of minerals and rocks.
The impressions of such
water are full of fresh air.
These impacts change
water structurally.
Meanwhile, for a
human being, water
remains the same: without
taste, without color,
and without odor.
Yet it's impossible to find
identical water on Earth.
Water is like a
clean sheet of paper,
which can be changed
by a tiny brush stroke.
The great artist
Leonardo da Vinci
wrote, "Water assumes a
special character as many times
as there are different
places where it flows."
On Okinawa island
in Japan, people
live incredibly long lives.
They suffer very few cases
of common human diseases
such as diabetes,
arteriosclerosis, and cancer.
One of the explanations
is that they
drink water vitalized by the
coral their island rests on.
These natural bodies are not
only stunningly beautiful,
but also extremely long lived.
The most ancient of them are
more than 600 million years
old.
The coral imprints the
water with information
about longevity, which
is then passed over
to the water medium of the human
body, tuning it for long life.
75% of the human body
consists of water.
If the body loses 2%
of its liquid content,
we become thirsty.
If it loses 10%, we
start hallucinating.
If the body loses over
12% of water, we die.
In the language of the Pemon
Indian tribe in Venezuela,
Roraima is translated as
the mother of all waters.
A group of Russian
biophysicists set out
for this destination
in January, 2005
to collect a unique sample
of water which scientists say
has never been in direct
contact with human beings.
Such water exists in only one
place on Earth-- in Venezuela.
According to one
hypothesis, a continent
called Gondwana existed
in the southern hemisphere
during the Paleozoic era.
Powerful tectonic processes
occurring in the Earth's crust
3.5 million years ago split
it into several parts.
As a result of these changes,
some segments of the continents
sank, while those resting
on granite substrates
remained at their
previous level.
Elevated plateaus were
formed, which the Indians
called tepuis, meaning pillars.
Roraima is the largest of them.
>>It's a really remote
place, very hard to get to.
Three days of travel through the
savanna, and then the jungles.
Then you climb an
800 meter wall.
It takes a certain
amount of enthusiasm.
Therefore, we can say that
the water we have there
is in a unique, virgin state.
>>There is always a
large cloud over Roraima.
As evening approaches,
a light haze appears.
When the moon comes out
from behind the mountains,
the mist begins to glow
with an even blue light.
And in that light, it is visible
how fine droplets of moisture
are hanging in the still air.
The slightest breath of a
breeze, and this watery dust
forms into drops.
This is the origin of the
rain which rushes down
in countless waterfalls.
>>So today is January 30,
water collection number 16.
Then we shall pack
it all up in foil.
And in this form, this
water will hold its energy
for several days with
the air of these places.
Then we'll arrive
in Saint Petersburg,
and we'll calmly carry out
our laboratory analysis
several thousand miles away.
And only then will we be
able to draw any conclusions.
>>Professor
Korotkov's laboratory
has developed an instrument
that can determine
the energetics of water.
It works on the basis
of the Kirlian effect.
Everything that enters a
strong electromagnetic field
begins to emit light.
The greater energy the object
possesses, the brighter
it shines.
The water from Venezuela was
compared with ordinary drinking
water.
>>We can say that this water
is not double, not triple,
but it is 40,000
times more active.
So these are really two
fundamentally different
substances.
And water of this
type, this water,
which immediately
activates the body,
it activates the whole system.
That's why there,
where the Indians,
despite the deprivation in
which they live, live very long
lives and are very
happy, they absolutely
do not want civilization
to come to them.
>>This water also had an
effect on the science team,
even though their visit to the
area lasted less than a week.
Dr. Korotkov used a
special instrument
to measure the energy
level of each person
at the base of Roraima,
and then two days later
after each member
reached the summit.
>>And what we found
was really astonishing.
We found that for all
members of the group,
at the top of Roraima, their
energy field tremendously
increased.
And they felt it.
So now, you see this
images of energy field
of a person at the sea level.
And you see it sort of
breaks, it's very jagged.
And it's typical
reflection of condition.
And this is the same person,
but at the top of Roraima.
And you see dramatic difference.
>>What is water?
In water researcher
Viktor Schauberger's view,
it is a living
substance which can
die if it is treated poorly.
Schauberger believed that
water is born in the forest.
It falls as rain.
And it filters down
through the rocks,
gathering minerals
and trace elements
until arriving at the
surface as a spring.
At this point, water is
full of mother's substances,
ready to provide life.
Its vitality depends
on how it flows
or how it is forced to flow.
Our systems for moving
and processing water
are designed from
the point of view
that water is merely a fluid
without life or energy.
So we don't care
how it's treated.
We make water flow
along straight channels,
through cylindrical
devices and other shapes
that are never found in nature.
We ignore water's natural path.
Spiral patterns and
arrangements are all around us
in the forms of galaxies,
cyclones, and tornadoes.
These spirals are
everywhere in nature,
which has chosen these
formations because they
represent the law
of constant change.
If we want to create a
system for moving water which
allows it to remain
vital and alive,
we must provide the opportunity
for water to breathe.
Viktor Schauberger's research
on water revitalization
inspired the development
of flow forms, which
are a series of formed
basins that allow water
to flow into figure
eight vortical movements,
causing the water to
pulsate rhythmically.
The type of movement
in flow forms
simulates a mountain stream--
energizing, restructuring,
and oxygenating water.
Flow forms mimic nature's
flowing movement,
plus simulate the heart
rhythms, helping to refresh
and reharmonize water.
Vortical treatments of
harmonic frequencies
is an effective way to eliminate
undesirable information
remaining in water after
removal of physical pollutants.
Water makes a long,
difficult journey
before arriving in our homes.
>>It used to be common knowledge
that a settlement could only
occur where there was a
natural source of water.
Today, whether or
not there is water
in a place is of no
importance, because we
transport water for thousands
of miles using high pressure.
>>In nature, rivers and
streams always flow along
a smoothly curving course.
But any water system has
multiple right angle turns.
The natural structure
of the water
breaks down more and
more with each such turn.
>>Water from a
water supply system
which flows into our
homes through pipes
has various forms,
crystals of various forms.
But they are all deformed.
That is, they may
look like this.
It can look like this
or have these crystals
and many other
arrangements, but you won't
see any symmetry or beauty.
>>We've been forming crystals
for more than a dozen years.
From our tests, we
came to the conclusion
that living water forms
more hexagonal crystals,
and less vibrant or dead water
doesn't form hexagonal shapes.
What concerns me is that
water from any big city
tends not to form
beautiful crystals.
When water travels in a city,
it collects negative information
from the people and pollution.
Also, the more chlorine in
the water, the less crystals
can form.
We also have pipes that
make lots of turns.
Imagine if you were water.
You might want to die with
all this unnatural and forced
movement.
>>Water that flows in a
floor-paneled heating system
is devitalized and rotten.
It sucks energy out of the
people, plants, and animals
living in that house.
It actually steals the energy.
>>It is well known
that the water
supply in many large cities
is a closed loop system.
After undergoing aggressive
chemical purification
and passing through
powerful filters,
the water in these systems
is returned to our homes,
still remembering the
chemicals and the violence
it was subjected to.
There are over 100,000 man
made chemicals, including
pharmaceuticals, birth
control pills, toiletries,
and household cleaners.
When the liver removes
these toxins from our body,
they get flushed down the
toilet where they then
go into the sewer where many
pass intact through our sewage
treatment facilities and
filters and are recycled back
into our municipal water system
for us to consume once again.
Even stronger, however, is
the informational pollution
that the water accumulates as it
flows down miles of long pipes,
through thousands and thousands
of houses and apartments.
>>We pollute water
spiritually, and this
happens on a huge scale.
Why?
The water adopts
all of the hatred,
all of the malice, the stress.
The water is almost dead by
the time it enters our body.
>>We subjected water to super
weak magnetic field impulses.
These fields are tens
of thousands of times
weaker than the Earth's
natural magnetic field.
Fish were introduced into water
that was treated in this way,
and the fish soon produced an
unusual hatch of small fry.
They differed radically
from the other fish
to which they were
related, though they
looked as much alike as twins.
Grey stripes appear on the belly
of all these males at once,
along with colored
spots which had not
been observed previously.
These are called
phenotype changes.
And it is of
fundamental importance
that these changes appear not in
just some of the treated fish,
but in all of them
at the same time.
>>The experiment
resulted in changes
not only on the outward
appearance of the fish,
but also in their behavior.
They began to react to outside
stimuli in the same way.
It was as if the whole school
had acquired a collective mind.
>>I've studied water
crystals for 15 years.
What I would really like people
to know through my research
or work is that
water has memory.
>>Dr. Masaru Emoto
exposes water to a variety
of outside stimuli in his
research laboratory in Japan.
His researchers capture 50
samples of each water specimen,
which are frozen, and
after three hours,
examined in the lab at a
temperature of minus 5 degrees
centigrade.
Only a few will reveal
their beautiful structure.
As the temperature rises
under the microscope,
the crystal starts
to grow and expand.
The researcher captures
its image on camera
before it returns
to the liquid state.
This beautiful
geometrical wonder
expands in six directions
from each corner
of its hexagonal base.
A lateral view reveals
a protrusion that
appears at the tip of the cone.
This is because
ice crystals do not
develop two dimensionally,
but rather three dimensionally
from the center to the edges.
Water from natural
sources, unlike tap water,
provides a wide range of
crystalline formations.
This allows us to peek into
the life and health of water.
Living water in good
condition produces
beautiful hexagonal crystals,
as we see in these pictures.
If water gets sick or dies, what
we see changes dramatically.
We can see how water reacts to
a computer, a television set,
to hard rock, a microwave
oven, a cellphone.
>>The basic principle in
the universe is vibration.
And vibration can be created
by the principle of resonance.
Without resonance,
vibration doesn't exist.
And this is the truth
in the universe.
In the quantum world,
very small units of things
resonate with each other.
And that's how they
affirm themselves.
So we are able to reconfirm
the existence of things
by seeing them through
this resonance theory.
>>Max Planck once said
that everything is a wave.
In other words, when we write
a word on a sheet of paper
and apply it to water, we can
see that the water crystal
changes its form.
It means a transformation
of the water itself
under the influence
of frequencies
that we emit with this word.
>>The first word Dr.
Emoto's research team
exposed water to was "arigatou,"
Japanese for "thank you."
Next, we see what happened
when they used negative words,
such as "you fool."
Words of beauty create
beautiful crystals.
Gentle words manifest
delicate crystals.
In crystal form, water
reflects the power of intention
behind our words.
In 1995, Dr. Masaru
Emoto was the first one
to record musical
impressions on water.
In Dr. Emoto's laboratory,
they presented water
with different types of
music, after which they froze
the water and then
under the microscope
could clearly see the crystals
that the water had formed.
Here, we see crystallized
distilled water
before music is introduced.
And now the transformation
when it is exposed to Mozart.
This is how water
responded to Beethoven.
And this is water's
response to something
more contemporary--
Sting's "Fragile."
Other well known examples of
water's hexagonal geometry
are snowflakes.
Each one is created by the
conditions in which it grows.
No two are exactly the
same, despite the billions
of snowflakes that
fall each year.
The life of a snowflake
begins high in the atmosphere.
The lone droplet freezes into
a tiny ice bead, which then
expands into a hexagonal base.
Each of its six corners
starts to grow a branch,
creating a very complex pattern.
Physicists have calculated that
the number of possible ways
to grow a snowflake far
exceeds the total number
of all atoms in the universe.
Therefore, you can be pretty
sure that any snowflake you see
will be unique, like no other
that has ever fallen to Earth.
This is a water droplet.
If we expose water to various
sound frequencies using
a technology called
a tonoscope, we
can observe various patterns
emerging in its structure.
As we increase the frequency
at certain key thresholds,
the entire pattern morphs
into a new resonant pattern,
which is a more complex
expression of the base
frequencies.
This happens repeatedly as
the frequency increases.
We can observe familiar
geometrical patterns.
Here we see a perfect
cube, a tetrahedron, a star
tetrahedron, the octohedron.
All of these forms
of sacred geometry
were created simply by
achieving the resonant frequency
to match the form.
>>Water and human
beings and plants
respond the same way
to resonant energy
that your cell phone does
when it picks up the call.
Human beings and
water can respond
to particular frequencies and
energies applied that way.
And you can build
up tremendous energy
and have tremendous effects.
We grow crystals using
resonant frequencies.
Salt crystals like
the same kind of salt
flowing through your
bloodstream right now in water.
We grow those crystals
using resonant frequencies
2 and 1/2 thousand
times faster and bigger.
>>Water perceives every
change in thought or mood.
The brightest of these
vibrational currents
is created by love.
The power of this emotion is
reflected in the word itself.
>>Our mind is related to
our central nervous system.
And when we have some emotions
or we have some thought,
they directly influence not
only our nervous system,
but the whole body.
First it flows through blood,
then through vegetative system.
So we with our thoughts,
with our emotions,
we totally change condition
of the whole body.
>>Visionary and artist
Leonardo da Vinci
came to the same conclusion.
"Human emotions are water,"
he wrote in his notes,
"and it is the form
taken by these flows
within the body that determine
the human character."
Every seed, every embryo begins
its life exclusively in water.
Amniotic fluid plays a role
in the embryo's development
and preservation.
The amniotic fluid of a pregnant
woman is clustered water.
Under the microscope, it looks
like clearly formed groups
of molecules.
You get the impression
that the water
is trying to protect
the life inside,
directing all the forces
of the mother's body
to its protection
and development.
It was discovered that
the cells of a newborn
also contain such water.
When rapidly frozen
and seen under 20,000
fold magnification,
it proved to be
a crystal of incredible beauty.
>>Water is the fundamental
element of life,
and is the telephone
to the universe.
And the way we feel,
the way we act,
the way we process
our emotions is
going to have an impact on
the water inside our body
and the world as a whole.
>>Dr. Emoto conducted another
groundbreaking experiment.
He placed rice in
three glass beakers
and covered it with water.
And then every day
for a month, he
said thank you to one beaker,
you're an idiot to the second,
and the third one he
completely ignored.
After one month, the rice
that had been thanked
began to ferment, giving off
a strong, pleasant aroma.
The rice in the second
beaker turned black.
And the rice that was
ignored began to rot.
Dr. Emoto feels
that this experiment
provides an important lesson.
>>The worst rice samples is
the one that was ignored.
The same can be said
in our daily lives
when dealing with children.
Ignoring children is the
worst thing we can do.
Even if we have to
scold them occasionally,
communication is very important.
We should always converse
with them and encourage them.
Ignoring them causes
the greatest harm.
>>In this experiment,
Dr. Emoto's researchers
used a glass of Tokyo
tap water, which
seems to be unable to form
crystals, and performed a test.
Participants placed the glass
in the center of their circle
and sent gratitude to the water.
Studying the water
under the microscope,
they started to see
a crystal formation.
Increased magnification showed
the symmetry of the crystal,
revealing how the tap water was
transformed by the gratitude
sent by the group.
The crystal continued
to grow, expressing
the energies received.
The tap water from Tokyo finally
produced a beautiful crystal.
>>It was interesting to
see children so completely
astonished after they witnessed
the difference in Tokyo
tap water before and after
they sent the prayer.
Their mothers were
kind of skeptical
before this experiment.
But afterwards, they said we
really have to believe it.
>>Scientists in the field
of electrophoton imaging
were conducting experiments
measuring the energy of water
here in the United States.
To establish a baseline, a
drop of water from a test class
was suspended above electrodes
where it was photographed
using a fiberoptic camera.
The research team then took
the same glass of water
and performed an experiment
in the power of intention.
Participants focused
on the water,
sending positive thoughts
and a healing chant.
This sample exposed
to positive thoughts
was then tested in the exact
same manner as the baseline
sample.
These measurements
allowed scientists
to study the photon
emissions or energy
level of each water sample.
When the baseline
drop was compared
to the one imprinted
with positive intentions,
the difference was remarkable.
The imprinted sample clearly
had more photon emission
and an increase in stability.
Next, researchers exposed water
to a traditional instrument
known for its
meditative qualities.
Indigenous Australians
have performed ceremonies
with the didgeridoo
for centuries using
a circular breathing technique.
The water showed a significant
increase in energy level,
as evidenced by the computer
data and the resulting images.
>>It's clear that water is one
of the most sensitive indicator
of any fields that we
have surrounding us.
>>Professor
Korotkov's laboratory
has conducted
numerous experiments
on the effect of human
emotions on water.
A group of people
were asked to project
onto a flask of water
in front of them
various positive emotions like
love, tenderness, and concern.
Then the flask was
replaced with another one
and the people were
asked to project emotions
of a different type-- fear,
aggression, and hatred.
After this, measurements
were taken on the samples.
The water exhibited
changes that were clearly
in one direction or another.
>>Love tremendously increases
energy of water and harmony
of water, while aggression,
anger decreases and totally
reduces harmony from water.
>>This is water
exposed to compassion.
And this, to anger.
Everything we feel, hear,
or see is a combination
of light, sound,
electromagnetic, and many other
waves.
Every life form, be it a
germ, an insect, animal,
or human being, perceives
them differently.
They perceive them in their
own strictly defined range.
Only water is able to absorb
the entire range of frequencies
that exist in nature and
become either living or dead
under their influence.
The average person
consumes 16,000 gallons
of water in a lifetime.
That is a vast
stream of chemical
and structural information that
is passed through our bodies.
When we bath or
shower, we also receive
10 times the acceptable
concentration of chlorine.
Chlorine in the water
supply displaces oxygen.
When chlorine
burns off bacteria,
it actually removes the
fire of life from water.
>>Water burning is oxidation
by oxygen of water.
What is the product
of this burning?
Again water and oxygen.
I couldn't think of any
other substance which,
after burning, stays itself.
It's only water.
Because any burning is
combining oxygen with fuel.
Boiling of water is
combining oxygen with water.
The product of this burning,
again, water and oxygen.
>>Burning is a special property
of living water distinguishing
it from dead water.
Burning is the ability to
eliminate harmful matter
with its own power.
Scientists have studied numerous
samples of municipal water
and did not find this
natural burning phenomenon
in any of them.
>>Once we tested
water in a big bottle
labeled by producers as the
best water in the world.
And they added something
else, but this water
had absolutely no life.
Glass, those are silicon.
This is natural
element of the Earth.
And water interacts with
this element in our nature.
Plus, the wall of a
glass, it's smooth.
So water being
near by this wall,
it becomes more harmonized.
So water can be kept in
glass bottle, in principle,
infinite time.
This is absolutely different.
This is plastic.
So this is chemicals,
and chemicals
they penetrate water slowly.
Plus, the wall, it's not smooth.
So water being nearby
plastic surface
becomes more and more chaotic.
>>Most likely, people do not
sense any particular difference
between naturally pure and
artificially purified water.
But any animal will always
choose water from a spring,
because this water is loaded
with natural energies.
When scientists studied this
high mountain environment
in places where water is known
for its healing properties--
like Lourdes in France-- they
made an important discovery.
They found that the pH
level of these waters
was highly ionized
and very alkaline.
While studying
water, researchers
exposed ordinary water to
magnetically charged plates,
creating a simple
method of ionization,
separating water into two
streams-- one alkaline
and one acidic.
The water from the
alkaline stream
significantly
improves hydration,
because it is easier
for the body to absorb.
Water from tap or
bottled sources
is usually clustered in groups
of 11 to 16 water molecules.
During ionization,
the water molecules
are reduced to only five to
eight molecules per cluster.
The percentage of oxygen
increases significantly,
which can be almost double the
amount of tap or bottled water,
allowing the body to
maintain a proper pH balance.
>>Our lifespan is directly
proportional to the amount
of antioxidants we
have in our body.
And water is an important
carrier of antioxidants.
If you drink water that has
large quantities of hydrogen
along with the right surface
tension and right mineral
content, then it will slow
down the aging process.
It will keep our mitochondria
from dying, which provide us
with the energy of life.
And so we can expect
to live longer.
Essentially, it is
said that we should
live to be about 120 years old.
And we often die
long before that.
So no one really dies
of natural causes
if they die younger than that.
They die of dehydration.
>>What is acidic pH?
What is acid?
Acid is devoid of
electrons, free electrons.
What is alkali?
Alkali is full of electrons.
So our body should
be slightly alkaline.
What it means?
It means that our body should
contain enough electrons,
or hydrogen atoms if you like,
which will combine with oxygen.
If we are acidic, then oxygen
flows in, flows out unused.
If you don't have fuel,
oxygen is useless.
>>pH is a very important
factor in overall health.
To stay in balance, the body
has to maintain its pH level,
because we're continuously
generating acid wastes.
When we eat, nutrients are
transported to our cells
and then burnt with oxygen,
resulting in waste products
that are almost always acidic.
In a healthy body, our blood
would pick up these wastes
and carry them through the
liver, kidneys, colon or skin
before removal.
But worry, poor sleep
and food choices,
and environmental challenges
limit our body's ability
to remove acidic
waste quickly enough.
So the body compensates
and transforms acidic waste
to solid waste,
storing the solid waste
in less dangerous
areas like arteries,
and especially fat tissues.
The doctor is drawing blood
from a patient's finger.
Using a special
microscope, we shall
be able to see the condition
of her body from this drop.
>>These are red blood
cells, and they've
lost their electrical charge.
So they're all stuck together in
a formation called a rouleaux.
Here's a huge symplast.
Symplasts are associated
with heart disease
and many other conditions that
could be coming in the future.
>>The doctor asks the patient
to drink a small amount
of structured water.
After 12 minutes, the
doctor again draws blood
from the patient and studies it.
>>So you can see that the
cells then become buoyant,
they become slippery, and they
have their electrical charge.
So they repel each other.
That allows them
to carry oxygen,
and it means that we're
changing the pH of the blood.
I think that's utterly
amazing that just
drinking water could do that.
>>One way to
counteract over acidity
is by drinking alkaline water.
We can measure the
beneficial effects
clinically with a
new technology called
polyinterference photography.
This machine analyzes the
body using light analysis
technology.
The subject is exposed to
controlled full spectrum light.
This study volunteer had
been drinking mostly soda pop
on a regular basis.
The doctor notes
that the participant
suffers severe congestion in
the areas around the liver,
pancreas, and spleen.
A bright pink spot
also appears where
the participant reports
having regular severe migraine
headaches.
The volunteer is asked to
drink only alkaline water
for five days, and then
return for a followup exam.
The red areas where
congestion was recorded
are now a clearer blue,
indicating that the blockages
are shrinking in size.
The pink spot marking the
point of headaches is gone,
and the volunteer confirms that
he hasn't suffered migraines
since the drinking of
the alkaline water.
The research team examined
the same participant
using electrophoton imaging.
This technology, based
on the Kirlian effect,
takes an image from
each finger using
a high voltage electrical field
and reads its photon, or light,
emission.
Each finger corresponds to
specific regions of the body.
The participant's
first scan shows
several gaps in
his energy field,
representing specific organs.
Once again, the weak points
indicate the pancreas
and liver.
After five days of
drinking alkaline water,
these gaps are reduced.
The case study's image is
brighter and more consistent,
representing improved
health, including the areas
of the pancreas and liver.
Even more conclusive
proof can be seen
using live blood cell analysis.
This is a blood sample taken
before the participant began
the water experiment.
The volunteer drank a gallon
of alkaline water that day,
and another blood sample
is taken 24 hours later.
We can see how just
drinking alkaline
water improved the cellular
environment of his blood.
The participant continued
drinking good water
for two months.
During that interval, he
lost a total of 20 pounds
and gained leaner muscle mass.
One theory of how to
increase hydration of cells
is to remove the dissolved
solids from the water using
distillation or deionization.
This may allow the water
molecules to more easily enter
the cells.
In an experiment conducted
in the Netherlands,
two beakers of deionized water
are placed next to each other.
A highly electrical
potential difference
is run through the beakers.
Amazingly, the water creates a
bridge between the two beakers.
This bridge can reach up to
25 millimeters in length.
When scientists recorded
the water formation
with a thermographic
camera, they
found the hottest part
to be in the smallest
diameter of the
bridge and observed
a transfer of heat and
material between the beakers.
>>You think when you
look at it, there
must be a very simple
explanation to that,
and it must be predictable and
it must be easy to calculate.
But it is not.
>>One thing is certain.
This experiment cannot be
repeated with tap or bottled
water.
Only the deionized water with
very low dissolved solids
can create this phenomenon.
>>The interaction of water
and electricity is so basic,
and it's everywhere around us.
If you look at the clouds
at a thunderstorm--
it's water and
electricity-- that one
might think that scientists
understand this completely.
People don't realize that this
substance which is most common
has 63 anomalies.
For water, every
physical property,
every basic property
is an anomaly.
Boiling point, freezing point,
conductivity, surface tension--
all anomalies.
So the question
is to which extent
can this problem be solved
within the current scientific
framework.
I think it is another anomaly,
because it was not predicted
and it cannot be calculated yet.
>>It is now believed there
might be a fourth phase of water
that we previously ignored.
>>We found something
odd that interfaces
when you have a so-called water
loving or hydrophilic interface
with water.
In other words, when
the water is butting up
against that surface,
that hydrophilic surface,
it takes on a new
set of properties.
It's like a liquid crystal.
And these properties
are not like the liquid
and not like the solid.
They're somewhere in between.
If there's a fourth phase of
water, I think this is it.
If we had a plant
sitting here, everybody
can understand that the light
is coming in and hitting
the plant, and this
energy from light,
from the environment,
is then changed,
transduced into other kinds
of energy that the plant uses.
And the water, it
does the same thing.
Water is a recipient of energy.
Your cells are filled with
these little mini batteries.
>>Water from a single container
was divided into two portions.
One part was subjected
to an outside influence
that changed the structure
and properties of that water.
The water in the second flask
acquired the same structure
and the same properties after
a certain period of time,
even if the two
portions of water
were a significant distance
removed from each other.
The Russian philosopher and
scientist Alexander Chizhevsky
as early as the 1930s described
one astounding phenomenon.
Observing a colony
of bacteria, he
noted that from time to time,
these quiet microorganisms were
engaged in unusual activity.
Chizhevsky established
that single cell organisms
became agitated in line with
the advent of solar flares.
While the sunlight
still has a full eight
minutes to reach the
Earth, the bacteria already
know about the upcoming change.
Detecting changes
in the universe,
water immediately
changes its properties
both on Earth and within the
bodies of living creatures.
This happens instantly.
In the world's religions
Christianity, Islam,
and Judaism, it is the
practice to recite a prayer
before taking food
or to consecrate
the food during major
religious holidays.
Why did something
that science is only
now trying to understand seem
obvious to our ancestors?
>>January the 18th.
It is the eve of the Orthodox
Feast of the Epiphany.
Two flasks are filled
with ordinary tap water.
Early in the
morning, one of them
is set inside the
Church near the vessel
over which the sacrament
of sanctification
is to be performed.
Every year on January 19, the
faithful and even non-believers
hurry into churches to pick up
some of the baptismal water.
It is believed to possess
extraordinary properties.
In order to confirm
or refute this,
the two flasks were taken
to the laboratory for study
immediately after the service.
Here the water was frozen
in a cryogenic chamber
and photographed
under the microscope.
The crystals of the
tap water looked
like a chaotic diffused spot.
While the water that
had been in the church
had the rectilinear symmetrical
form of a six pointed star.
>>There was a
fabulous experiment
done at McGill University
in Canada a few years back
in which the goal was
to see if water that
had been prayed over and
blessed would stimulate
the growth of young seedlings
more than plans that
were watered with
water that had not
been blessed through prayer.
Sure enough, the plants
that received the water that
had been prayed over and blessed
had a more vigorous growth
rate.
Over and over, we
see around the world
where water seems to play
a major role in healing.
>>We know that water is
a recorder of frequency.
And we also know from a
great deal of evidence
that thoughts
create a frequency,
and that water is a recorder
of those frequencies.
People are mostly water.
Food is mostly water.
Anything alive is mostly water.
So if all of these things
are picking up and embedding
our thoughts, what is
it we are thinking?
>>From all this research, I can
give you very simple advice.
If you go to lunch or
dinner, please never, ever
sit with people who are in
aggressive mood, in a bad mood.
They can totally
spoil your food and it
will have a very negative
effect on your health.
>>How a person
handles water, if he
approaches the water with
good thoughts or blesses it
and says thank you to it,
the quality of the water
will improve and the water
will have a positive effect
on a person and his body.
>>If you go to Bible,
if you go to Rigveda,
or if you go to other
sources of the origins,
it turns out very interesting
thing-- water was not created.
If you just read the
first verses of Genesis,
there was not a single word
about the creation water.
And all other religions talk
about water as non created.
And here is the major mystery
to which science will never
give the answer.
>>No matter the
faith, a person must
be clean to stand
before the creator.
Water is an intermediary
that connects humans
with their source.
The Jews have
ablutions and mikvehs.
The Muslims wash
before ritual prayers.
In Christianity, water is
the foundation for baptism.
There have been many wars
based on religious grounds
in human history.
But sincere prayers
from any major religion
can have a positive
effect on water.
>>From my experience,
any positive information
being given to water,
such as mantras or words
from holy books, no matter
the religious faith,
form beautiful crystals.
>>The Christian prayer.
The Buddhist prayer.
The Muslim prayer.
By the summer of 1991, Israel
had had no rain for two years.
The water in the country's only
freshwater lake, Lake Kinneret,
had fallen 15 centimeters
below the critical level.
Then 10,000 Israelis
gathered at the Wailing Wall
to pray for rain.
On the third day, rain came
down on the country in torrents.
Many people explain this
fact as simple coincidence.
>>If you had to point at
anything in the universe that
connects all things, the
only substance you could find
would be space.
Space is everywhere.
And water is an
expression of that space.
Any changes in the space
will change the water.
All life emerges from
water, because water
is the medium from which space
communicates with all living
things.
You find that you have
hurricanes and typhoons, right?
Hurricanes in north
hemisphere and typhoons
in the south hemisphere.
And you look at the way
the weather patterns move
on our planet, they go from
the poles to the equator
and back to the poles.
They don't cross over.
There is this double
torus behavior
of how the water and
the electric fields
and the magnetic field of
our planet is behaving.
So water is an expression of
the structure of space-time.
>>The quantum vacuum is
something able to oscillate.
In this way, all the
existing object in nature
are in the same position
as the metronomes.
They settle on an
oscillating platform,
which is the quantum vacuum.
And through the
quantum vacuum, they
are able to tune together
their oscillation.
And this says why liquid water
becomes the very good tool
for dialoguing, for having a
dialogue with external signal
coming from elsewhere.
>>In the 13th century,
an Italian mathematician
known as Fibonacci,
while observing
various natural phenomenon,
discovered the golden ratio--
an infinite sequence of
numbers, every one of which
was the sum of the
two preceding numbers.
Dividing any of the smaller
numbers of the sequence
by the neighboring
greater number,
we shall always get
approximately 0.618.
Creating his paintings,
Leonardo da Vinci
used a special principle
of structural perfection.
He called it the
golden section, where
the ratio of the greater part of
the section to its smaller part
and the ratio of the whole
section to its greater part
was equal to 0.618.
Long before that, in
the sixth century BC,
Pythagoras the philosopher and
mathematician of ancient Greece
discovered this
ratio in geometry.
Years before that, we can find
that ancient Egyptians made
reference to the same thing.
They called it the
Divine Essence.
Does this mean that Pythagoras,
Fibonacci, and Leonardo da
Vinci, as well as many
other men of genius,
had knowledge of
special laws of harmony
which form the basis of all
things perfect in this world?
Quite recently,
scientists put forward
a new hypothesis stating
that the laws of the universe
are written in water.
The Golden Ratio, or
the Divine Essence,
was found in a
molecule of meltwater.
In regular water, the angle
between hydrogen atoms
varies from 104 to 107 degrees.
In meltwater, this
angle is 108 degrees.
And the ratio of the length
of hydrogen ties 0.618.
This is a special
state of water.
In melting from
its frozen state,
water deletes all
information from its memory,
retaining only one program:
the program for life.
Everything in
nature's perfection
has been created in
accordance with this program.
The arrangement of leaves on a
branch, the petals on a flower,
or the thread of a spider's web.
The intricate form
of a snail's shell,
the DNA molecule, the universe.
It transpires that who
created this world transmitted
the program of life to every
living creature through water.
The phenomenon of
structural memory
enables water to take an
impression of everything that
happens around it and to connect
all living systems together.
And each one of us is a
link in an endless chain
of this transfer of information.
But in addition, each of us is
also a source of information.
Every one of our
actions-- a thought,
an emotion, an uttered
word-- separates from us
and becomes part of the overall
informational environment.
Informational dirt is poisoning
the water, accumulating layer
by layer in its memory.
If that process was
to continue endlessly,
the water would lose its
ability to support life.
But it is endowed with a
self-cleansing capacity.
This occurs at the moment
of phase transition,
when it evaporates and then
condenses and falls as rain.
Or when it melts from
its frozen state,
shaking off the
informational grime.
Water always
preserves its secret.
That is, the program for life.
>>All the information about
life is contained in water.
If we destroy this information,
we shall destroy ourselves.
>>Dr. Emoto's
numerous experiments
aimed at finding the word
that structures water most
beautifully have
shown that it is not
just one word, but a combination
of two: love and gratitude.
[MUSIC JOSH AND SETH LARSON, "WE
ALL FALL LIKE RAIN"]